The book "The Evolution Of Cooperation":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Evolution_of_Cooperation (by Robert Axelrod) was a great work. You should definitely "check it out":http://www.amazon.com/Evolution-Cooperation-Robert-Axelrod/dp/0465021212 . (And here is a "Chinese version":http://book.douban.com/subject/2259198/ )

However, the software emulating its system was "implemented with Fortran":http://www.cscs.umich.edu/Software/CC/ECHome.html , and hardly readable. I want to rebuild it with "Ruby":http://www.ruby-lang.org and make it more readable, probably make it an online system and invite people all over the world to contribute their strategies. 

h2. How to Participate?

I'm doing it alone so far. You can help by both ways:

h3. Submit Strategies

You can submit a strategy which would be used by a "prisoner" in "Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner%27s_Dilemma . In order to program a strategy, you need to:

* Create a .rb file (e.g. _*never_forgive.rb*_) within "strategies" directory (or make a subdirectory for yourself, it's your call).
* Define a class for your strategy, which must be a subclass of Strategy:
<blockquote><pre>class MyNiubiStrategy < Strategy
	...
end</pre></blockquote>
* Override/implement _*to_operate?*_ method, which has 2 arguments: the history of your actions and your opponent's. Based on the historical actions, you need to make a decision: am I going to cooperate in this round, or shall I defect/betray?
** To those who don't know Ruby much: the value of last statement in a method would be returned. Return _*false*_ or _*nil*_ causes your prisoner to betray, otherwise he will cooperate.
** Both arguments are arrays. For example, you could use _*opponent_history.last*_ to get the last step your opponent just behaved. "Check the document":http://www.ruby-doc.org/core/classes/Array.html for more detail.
* Add your new strategy into _*competition*_ task, which is in _*Rakefile*_.
<blockquote><pre>
  competitors = [
    AlwaysCooperateStrategy, 
    AlwaysBetrayStrategy, 
    TitForTatStrategy, 
    NeverForgive,
	MyNiubiStrategy,
    RandomStrategy
  ]	
</pre></blockquote>
* Finally...invoke _*rake competition*_ in your console, and see if your strategy wins the championship.

h3. Contribute to the Platform

(TBD)

That's it. Read the book if you haven't.